Data Pruning info for Cloud (#2127)
n8n-io/n8n-docs: docs/manage-cloud/cloud-data-management.md

---
description: How manage your data on Cloud.
contentType: howto
---

# Cloud data management

> Depending on your workload specificities and on how you use n8n, your instance might risk reaching its memory capacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your workload and on how you use n8n, your instance might risk reaching its memory capacity.
```

If this happens, the instance faces constant crashes that render it virtually inaccessible.

> To avoid this, n8n recommends that you don't save unnecessary data and build your workflows with memory efficiency in mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid this, n8n recommends that you don't save unnecessary data, and build your workflows with memory efficiency in mind.
```

## Data limits on each Cloud plan

1. Current plans
    * Trial - 320MiB RAM, 10 millicore CPU burstable;
    * Starter - 320MiB RAM, 10 millicore CPU burstable;
    * Pro-1 (10k executions) - 640MiB RAM, 20 millicore CPU burstable;
    * Pro-2 (50k executions) - 1280MiB RAM, 80 millicore CPU burstable;
    * Enterprise - 4096MiB RAM, 80 millicore CPU burstable.
2. Legacy plans
    * Start - 320MiB RAM, 10 millicore CPU burstable;
    * Power - 1280MiB RAM, 80 millicore CPU burstable.

## Data storage limits

> Each instance is allocated up to 100GB of data storage allowence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each instance has up to 100GB of data storage allowance.
```

## Execution data and binary data

* **Execution data** is essentially all the structured data that pertains to the workflow's execution - Node data, parameters, variables, execution context and binary data references. It is text-based.

* **Binary data** is non-textual data that cannot be represented as plain text. Essentially files and media - such as images, documents, audio files, videos, etc. It tends to be much larger than textual data.

> ## How to reduce memory consumption in your workflow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reduce memory consumption in your workflow
```

> The way workflows are built can influence how much data they will consume when executed. Although these guidelines are not applicable to all cases, they provide a baseline of best practices to avoid overconsumption of instance memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way you build your workflows affects how much data they consume when executed. Although these guidelines are not applicable to all cases, they provide a baseline of best practices to avoid over-consumption of instance memory.
```

--8<-- "_snippets/self-hosting/scaling/reduce-memory-consumption.md"

It is also noteworthy that n8n itself consumes memory to run. On average, around 180MiB RAM should be expected to be in use by the software alone.

> ## How to manage execution data on Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manage execution data on Cloud
```

There are two ways through which users can regulate the execution data to be kept in the database.

How much data you want to keep is completely dependent on your designs, but, for example, if a workflow consumes a particularly large amounts of data and is past testing stage, it's a good option to prune the successful executions.

1. **Manage Dashboard**
    * From your workspace or editor, navigate to **Admin Panel**;

>     * There, click on **Manage**, located in the navbar;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Select **Manage**.
```

>     * Scroll down to **Executions to Save** and  unclick which executions you would like keep from logging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Scroll down to **Executions to Save** and  deselect the executions you don't want to log.
```

2. **Workflow Settings**
    * From the editor of the workflow you want to manage, navigate to the * * * on the top right corner;
    * Select **settings**;
    * On **Save successful production executions** change the value to **Do not save**.

> ## How n8n deals with Cloud data pruning and Out of Memory incident prevention

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How n8n deals with Cloud data pruning and out of memory incident prevention
```

    * On **Save successful production executions** change the value to **Do not save**.

## How n8n deals with Cloud data pruning and Out of Memory incident prevention

### Automatic data pruning

n8n automatically prunes execution logs after a certain time or once the max storage limit has been hit, whichever comes first. The pruning always happens from oldest to newest and the limits depend on your Could plan:

* Start and Starter plans - max 2500 executions saved and 7 days execution log retention;
* Pro and Power plans - max 25000 executions saved and 30 days execution log retention;
* Enterprise plan - max 50000 executions saved and unlimited execution log retention time.

### Manual data pruning

Heavier executions and usecases can trigger memory overconsumption despite the automatic pruning practices. In cases like this, n8n will manually prune data for the safeguard of an instances stability.

1. Alert system will warn n8n if a particular instance it at 85% disk capacity;
2. A member of the Support team will reach out to the instance owner to inform them and ask permission for data pruning.
3. If permission is granted, n8n will prune back the user's data;

>     * This is done by running a backup of the instance - workflows, users, credentials and data - and restoring it without data

Reviewer: Can you clarify this - we back up the data but then restore without data?

---
description: How to manage your data on Cloud.
contentType: howto
---

# Cloud data management

There are two concerns when managing data on Cloud:

* Memory usage: complex workflows processing large amounts of data can exceed n8n's memory limits. If this happens, the instance can crash and become inaccessible.
* Data storage: depending on your execution settings and volume, your n8n database can grow in size and run out of storage. 

To avoid these issues, n8n recommends that you don't save unnecessary data, and build your workflows with memory efficiency in mind.

> ## Memory limits on each Cloud plan

Reviewer: Could we also provide data storage limits?

Current plans:

* Trial: 320MiB RAM, 10 millicore CPU burstable
* Starter: 320MiB RAM, 10 millicore CPU burstable
* Pro-1 (10k executions): 640MiB RAM, 20 millicore CPU burstable
* Pro-2 (50k executions): 1280MiB RAM, 80 millicore CPU burstable
* Enterprise: 4096MiB RAM, 80 millicore CPU burstable

Legacy plans:

* Start: 320MiB RAM, 10 millicore CPU burstable
* Power: 1280MiB RAM, 80 millicore CPU burstable

> ## How to reduce memory consumption in your workflow

Reviewer: This seems to more or less duplicate [this](https://docs.n8n.io/hosting/scaling/memory-errors/#reduce-memory-consumption) ? Could we just do some content reuse?

Author: yeah! My thinking here was not to make users have to open a link to a hosting section doc.
How would you suggest I do it?

> The way you build workflows affects how much data they consume when executed. Although these guidelines aren't applicable to all cases, they provide a baseline of best practices to avoid ex of instance memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way you build workflows affects how much data they consume when executed. Although these guidelines aren't applicable to all cases, they provide a baseline of best practices to avoid exceeding instance memory.
```

* Split the data processed into smaller chunks. For example, instead of fetching 10,000 rows with each execution, process 200 rows with each execution.

> * Avoid using the Code node where possible.

Reviewer: Do we really want to say this? As we focus on more technical users, telling them not to use an essential core node is not ideal. How big of a performance hit is it?

* Avoid manual executions when processing large amounts of data.
* Split the workflow up into sub-workflows and ensure each sub-workflow returns a limited amount of data to its parent workflow.

> * Avoid running many workflows at the same time.

Reviewer: Can we be more specific than 'many'?

Author: Good point!
Will ask cloud team for a ballpark number

Splitting the workflow might seem counter-intuitive at first as it requires adding at least two nodes: the Loop Over Items node to split up the items into smaller batches and the Execute Workflow node to start the sub-workflow.

However, as long as your sub-workflow does the heavy lifting for each batch and then returns only a small result set to the main workflow, the memory consumption is reduced. This is because the sub-workflow only holds the data for the current batch in memory, after which the memory is freed again.

Note that n8n itself consumes memory to run. On average, the software alone uses around 180MiB RAM.

## How to manage execution data on Cloud

> Execution data is data about the workflow's execution, including: node data, parameters, variables, execution context, and binary data references. It's text-based.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execution data includes node data, parameters, variables, execution context, and binary data references. It's text-based.
```

1. Select **Settings**. n8n opens the **Workflow settings** modal.
1. Change **Save successful production executions** to **Do not save**.

## Cloud data pruning and out of memory incident prevention

### Automatic data pruning

n8n automatically prunes execution logs after a certain time or once you reach the max storage limit, whichever comes first. The pruning always happens from oldest to newest and the limits depend on your Could plan:

* Start and Starter plans: max 2500 executions saved and seven days execution log retention;
* Pro and Power plans: max 25000 executions saved and 30 days execution log retention;
* Enterprise plan: max 50000 executions saved and unlimited execution log retention time.

### Manual data pruning

Heavier executions and usecases can exceed database capacity despite the automatic pruning practices. In cases like this, n8n will manually prune data to protect instance stability.

1. An alert system warns n8n if an instance is at 85% disk capacity.
2. A member of the Support team contacts the instance owner to inform them and ask permission for data pruning:

>  	- If the owner grants permission, n8n deletes execution data. This is done by running a backup of the instance (workflows, users, credentials and data) and restoring it without data.

Author: Yes, sorry! I meant to say "execution data" when I say "data"
will correct
